Q1.What is the difference between CI and CD
Ans.CI stands for continuous integration, a fundamental DevOps best practice where developers frequently merge code changes into a central repository where automated builds and tests run. 
    But CD can either mean continuous delivery or continuous deployment.


Q2.What is Configuration Management, and how does it work?
Ans.Configuration management is a process for maintaining computer systems, servers, and software in a desired, consistent state. 
    It's a way to make sure that a system performs as it's expected to as changes are made over time.


Q3.What is Ansible, and describe it’s working?
Ans.Ansible is an open source DevOps tool which can help the business in configuration management, deployment, provisioning, etc. It is straightforward to deploy; 
    it leverages SSH to communicate between servers. It uses the playbook to describe automation jobs, and playbook uses a very simple language YAML.


Q4.What distinguishes Ansible from other similar tools?
Ans.Ansible's unique selling points are its lightweight, relative ease of use and speed of deployment compared to other CM tools. 
    In contrast to Chef, you don't need to learn Ruby to use Ansible. This is because Ansible packages all commands into YAML modules called playbooks.



Q5.What is the purpose of the Ansible Galaxy?
Ans.Ansible Galaxy refers to the Galaxy website where users can share roles, and to a command line tool for installing, creating and managing roles.


Q6.Can you go over the Ansible modules in detail?
Ans.Module are discrete units of code that can be used from the command line or in a playbook task. Ansible executes each module, usually on the remote managed node, and collects return values. 
    In Ansible 2.10 and later, most modules are hosted in collections.


Q7.What is a YAML file, and how does Ansible use it?
Ans.Ansible uses YAML syntax for expressing Ansible playbooks. This chapter provides an overview of YAML. Ansible uses YAML because it is very easy for humans to understand, 
    read and write when compared to other data formats like XML and JSON.Every YAML file optionally starts with “---” and ends with “...”.


Q8.What are the different types of Ansible tasks?
Ans.A task is the smallest unit of action you can automate using an Ansible playbook. Playbooks typically contain a series of tasks that serve a goal, such as to set up a web server, 
    or to deploy an application to remote environments.Ansible executes tasks in the same order they are defined inside a playbook.


Q9.What are the best ways to use YAML files in high-level programming languages like Java, Python, and others?
Ans.Python


Q10.How to set up a jump host to access servers having no direct access?
Ans.The simplest way to connect to a target server via a jump host is using the -J flag from the command line. This tells ssh to make a connection to the jump host and then establish a 
    TCP forwarding to the target server, from there (make sure you’ve Passwordless SSH Login between machines)


Q11.How can I use encrypted files to automate password entry in a playbook?
Ans.With ansible-vault you can encrypt any structured data file used by Ansible. So ansible vault encrypt file can encrypt files or playbooks used by Ansible.
    Ex: ansible-vault create --vault-id @prompt secret.yml


Q12.What are Ansible callback plugins?
Ans.Callback plugins enable adding new behaviors to Ansible when responding to events. By default, callback plugins control most of the output you see when running the command line programs, 
    but can also be used to add additional output, integrate with other tools and marshal the events to a storage backend.


Q13.What is Ansible Inventory and what are the many types of it?
Ans.A host inventory file is a text file that consists of hostnames or IP addresses of managed hosts or remote servers.
    In Ansible, there are two types of inventory files: Static and Dynamic.
    Static:-A static inventory file is a plain text file that contains a list of managed hosts declared under a host group using either hostnames or IP addresses.
    Dynamic:-A dynamic inventory is a script written in Python, PHP or any other programming language. It comes in handy in cloud environments such as AWS where IP addresses change once a virtual 
             server is stopped and started again.


Q14.What is an Ansible Vault, exactly?
Ans.Ansible Vault is an Ansible feature that helps you encrypt confidential information without compromising security